everybody welcome to impact Siri you're
here my friends because you believe that
human potential is nearly limitless but
you know that having potential is not
the same thing as actually doing
something with it so our goal with this
show and company is to introduce you to
the people and ideas that will help you
actually execute on your dreams all
right today's guest is a globally
recognized super stud in the world of
elite human performance for more than 20
years he's been held vent to demystify
and democratize talent via boundaries
smashing experimentation and scientific
rigor and his results are astonishing he
spent nine years as a director of high
performance with the Olympic
snowboarding and skiing teams and when
he took the job America was in seventh
by the time he left they were competing
for first his secret was developing
custom programs that take people way way
outside of their comfort zones and
showing them just how much they're
capable of whether he is having elite
athletes parachute into the Australian
outback with Navy SEALs forcing them to
crawl blindfolded through a box of
snakes or surprising them with a
real-life charging grizzly bear he
doesn't promise that it will be easy
only that it will work he believes we
should treat our entrepreneurs
researchers and scientists the same way
that we treat elite athletes and as such
he's worked with a litany of people and
organizations ranging from fortune 500
clients to DARPA and everyone in between
and in this current role of director of
high performance of Red Bull his work
has branched aggressively into the realm
of optimized creativity through
collaborations with some of the world's
biggest artists musicians and cultural
influencers in 2013 his very unique work
garnered him the outstanding
contribution to performance Innovation
Award at the prestigious leaders in
performance conference please help me in
welcoming the man who led the
performance team for Red Bull Stratos
the group that helped Felix Baumgartner
with his record-breaking jump to Earth
from the stratosphere the man who thinks
it would be revelatory to push someone
out of a helicopter and into the ocean
without telling them first dr. Andy
Walsh
it's pleasure to have a man of your
possible like madness level on the show
I think what is said in the way that you
look at optimizing performance is really
awesome how do you come up with stuff
like crawling through a box of snakes or
having people charge that by a grizzly
bear which I mean that that was pretty
freaky seeing the images of that where
people don't expect a full size grizzly
bear to be charging at them what's uh
what's the thinking behind that
well the thinking we always try and draw
back on the sides of what's going on and
and the fundamental principle there was
designed around managing the
flight-or-fight response which is in
many high risk high stress situations
ultimately that's what you're trying to
do you're trying to get people to make a
right decision in the right time no
matter what the stakes are and move
directionally towards their goal so if
you think about how do you create a
state of high risk high anxiety high
high arousal you can do it you know in
the classic sense by pushing people in
the field they're trained in or you can
bring a very obtuse sort of stimulus to
the system and working with people like
Eric Potter in that case who recently
retired sort of head of psychology for
Special Operations and Naval Special
Warfare he'd used similar approaches so
we thought about it there's an innate
fear of snakes especially if you're not
from my home country in Australia don't
grow up with them there's this way we
package the training evolution so we
kind of give you a little information
but you you're that left to fill in the
gaps and then naturally in that state
you'll you'll see the snake you'll fill
in worst case scenario because you'll
make that story up which is an ass of an
inherent human trait as well and those
two things combined raise that fear if
you like that anxiety and then you're
trained during the program to sort of
manage that bring it back down and the
more you do it and the more differently
you approach that problem the better you
get at that skill and ultimately you
translate that into whatever it is
you're trying to achieve so you know the
other part of that is it can be fun
it can be it doesn't always have to be
serious well is for us it's not so much
fun if you're driving through but more
importantly those very unique kind of
challenges create a moment in time that
anchor you and we hear over and over
again the communities think of whenever
they face another high-stakes high-risk
situation again remember the bear or
remember the snakes and they recall and
so it's a sort of like an anchor memory
or like if you like tell me about
project Acheron mmm-hmm
where did you come up with that where
the name come from which I found pretty
fascinating and what what do you hope
that people get out of it in homme
Dante's Inferno the the river that
separates Hell from heaven it's lined
with souls of people who never committed
in the name of that river is Acheron so
we thought that's a perfect name for a
program where we're going to put people
in a very uncommon environment we're
going to stress them in very obtuse ways
and working with Pete knows checkers
former naval warfare here designed sort
of some very strategic and sort of
military focused events that we would
push them through in that in that week
of and we basically took four young men
who who had sort of come from very warm
and sort of backgrounds and sort of
comfortable environments with respect to
their their sports and we dropped them
in the middle of Patagonia known to them
and then they had to match their way
through the mountains through the cold
through the up and over the hills and
and this all comes together in a project
called Acheron which was really about
putting yourself out there pushing
yourself in an uncommon way and
basically learning something about
yourself and that so that concept of
karma see if I can get the exact quote
rate the better you are at who you are
the better you are at what you do is
that the notion behind that's one of the
fundamental premises it sort of goes way
back even to programs we've been doing
earlier than that but the idea that at
the very cop of a game most people
obviously very skilled to the craft and
they've mastered the craft and they've
mastered the everything around that
craft and so for us it's about getting
them to understand in a deeper level who
they are and what the
stand for is really their way forward
and again that draws back from ancient
Eastern philosophies you know sort of
mastering of yourself versus mastery of
the craft and and we found over the
years and if we explore your edges with
you in a supportive but challenging way
you will bring your expertise to bear
because you are the master and you'll
bring that to bear in a manner we
probably haven't even thought of and
you'll take that opportunity to grow and
evolve and and that's how we came up
with that phrase I love that you guys in
try me you're dealing with the best of
the best and you talked about you know
the people that we're dealing with are
there already placing like third in the
world and our goal is to get them into
first and to really get the perspective
that's going to allow you to do more
than eke out just one or two percent we
had to go back to the ancient text and
look at like the Bushido code samurai
what they were doing and what is it
about like going through suffering that
helps people understand themselves
better it's a great question and you're
right we did look deeply we call it like
the wisdom of the Ancients where you
think about all those people in history
who've had a had it's been in their best
interest to make sure that everybody is
performing at a high level whether it
was just survival of your community or
whether it was in the battlefield or
whether it was for a religious tangent
so we we reflected heavily on all that
the past before us I knew that there was
a lot of insight to be gained there and
for us it's a question over and over
again is it is it suffering necessary or
is it a quick path towards us in live
medicine and we'd like to figure out a
way where you didn't have to sort of go
through a little bit of sort of
self-discovery which seems to happen in
that quickly in the suffering
environment but we figured the only
other answer would be to figure out how
to get you on stage in front of a
million people and you're rocking and
rolling but that's even harder to create
so we we kind of sit back but we we try
and think about it like you it's not so
much the suffering but you're going to
be pushed just beyond your capacity we
put programs and systems around you to
ensure that when you do get a little bit
beyond where you're comfortable we have
your
now we'll let you probably explore that
space a little so you both both you and
I understand where you want to work and
prove but I think that sort of if it's
done in the right way it's not so much
it can be tough but it's not so much the
suffering I I think if you do if we
consider in that light it's not as
daunting as it is to just go out there
punish yourself right I'm actually a big
believer in the suffering and in one of
the videos that I saw of you I don't
think you worked with David Goggins but
he's the guy in the Navy recruiting
video talking about like I don't stop
until something gets uncomfortable we
actually had him on the show mm-hmm
didn't interview him utterly fascinating
dude one of the things that he's really
tapped into is what you find out about
yourself through suffering yes
pacifically through suffering and hi I'm
gonna I'll just put it out there you
can't discover that about yourself
without the level of suffering I think
yeah that could be fair and I think when
we talk about it again it's in the
context of is it suffering for the sake
of suffering is it suffering to learn
and then I think there's two sort of
levels to that and if we're fortunate
enough and create the right training
environment you do have a hard time
right we pull you back through so it's
not this ongoing things and of course
again with the lead people who have to
compete and all the rest of it there's
also a high risk of injury in those
things and we have to balance that piece
out as well so but I agree I think in
suffering there seems to be a moment
where you just strip everything falls
away and you just focus on the here and
now
and all you're trying to do is be
present and look at it directly what's
in front of you and I think that's a
skill that's very much part of growth
and I think that's one angle of the
suffering impacts you it's interesting
and that may be a much better way of
looking at it than the way that I look
at it which is the thing that I find so
interesting about suffering is you come
face to face with the gap between who
you are and who you want to be the cop
for us is how do we get you there
without putting it to hell hmm because
exactly to your point you have to really
struggle when we put you put it put you
to the sticks and you have to
really going through hell first and
foremost it is miserable and and and
it's and it's not comfortable and and
for many people I think that level of
suffering just out of the blue is it's
almost detrimental some will some people
will eventually hopefully get through it
but if they don't they have a negative
sort of reaction to it then you're
dealing with that aftermath so for us
over the years yes we can run you up and
down and keep you awake for hours and
days at a time until you break and you
know hopefully come out of that with a
different perspective we've been really
focused on how do we get you to explore
that edge uncomfortably but without
potentially the physical risk of stress
or the you know the potential negative
outcomes of them and how do you balance
out like when you're working with an
Olympic athlete and you know kay I need
to push them but not to the point of
injury how do you get them beyond
comfort but stop shy of injury well the
beauty of that is if I pick you as a
talent we're working with and we say ok
to put you in a comfortable situation
say in an interview on camera which is
very uncomfortable some people you know
obviously yeah used to it practice that
it it will be hard for me to generate a
scenario in this situation that would
challenge you maybe you know if you were
interviewing the president or we put you
in front of the Academy Awards and you
had to host it maybe you then you get a
little bit of a I think that the heart
rate starts to kick in a little bit so
that's also very hard to do and
obviously expensive for us if I say if
you're not used to something so I put
you in in a room stand-up comedy or
something and say okay make these people
laugh or we put you in a situation where
potentially like our survival
breath-hold where you're having to be
underwater and things like that if we
come at you in an uncommon way you'll
ramp very quickly the anxiety of the
arousal the stress everything will peak
and we can get you to a place where you
can practice your skills and behaviors
and explore your edge with a high level
of risk that you're perceiving but for
us in the background we're like yeah
there's no real challenge to you so we
can with our training evolutions for our
best
we try to build opportunities where we
stress you emotionally spiritually you
have you know psychologically and not so
much physically because the the sort of
risk of injury and the physical
challenges I that's so interesting like
people complain more about that than
parachuting into the Australian outback
especially if you're an athlete yes Wow
so interesting and are you trying to put
people in that position specifically so
they can practice like getting out of
the sympathetic nervous system tapping
into the parasympathetic like lowering
their heart rate reducing anxiety like
is that the game to just that's it one
of the games so any chance we can get
you in a situation where you are sort of
an elevated heart rate stress and
anxiety is high and you can in order to
learn to manage it or manifest tools and
techniques which we train you in to
bring it back the better you get in it
and the more we can do it in very obtuse
way so the more diversity we have in the
approaches to get you to that level the
more practice you get out of it in
uncommon ways which makes you also more
adaptable so you can deal with the
unknown much more easily so you're kind
of the analogy would be if you practice
it across all these different scenarios
then even something even more uncommon
comes to you you're like alright I've
done this a dozen times in real ways
it's an easier step then I've only ever
practiced in my craft
how can people do this because you say
that this stuff should apply and does
apply for entrepreneur or scientist how
can people do this in their own life it
does apply first and foremost these
things transfer very very well because
these are fundamental yeah sort of human
nature if you like and fly defy I think
think about your personal response is
going to be specific to you in the
situation so the simple way of saying
that is one person's happens in another
person health and you know and that's
very true well you feel comfortable and
answer happy in that space other people
will find very uncomfortable can and
vice versa so for us that's first and
foremost identify what is in your world
that's outside of your sort of level of
comfort or is a bit of a challenge that
slightly exceeds your capacity and then
take that on now it can be very subtle
at first
like introducing the concept say to a
table of entrepreneurs I see sweet just
don't give them an agenda and they start
to get a little anxious you know and at
that and it's a funny mechanism it's a
teaching point to say hey I just did a
very simple thing I didn't plan the day
very well maybe I booked the wrong room
and we're kind of disorganized and we
react that out and if you see sweet you
know time is precious and there's this
idiot in front of you who's kind of not
organized
seems I'm them organized which both are
actually true but then you get to you
know there's no agenda so they don't
know what's coming and straightaway
they'll react and if they react instead
of in a way that's not appropriate to
the where they want to go you can bring
it up and say look this is one little
tiny disruption I just put in your world
and what's your behavior what's a big
disruption in a course now again I'm I'm
gaming the system in our favor to make a
point to be very clear but it can be
simple little things it can be picking
you know something that you've always
wanted to do and setting that goal and
pushing yourself towards it it can be
challenge yourself with something that
does scare you well some people I know
have taken this to heart and they pick
one thing a year that they've always
wanted to do but never had the courage
or your patience or time to do and they
say I'm going to do this
I think classic things like jumping out
of planes but all of them work if you
put in the context this is about
stretching and learning and and if you
observe your own behaviors as you say in
that space and how you turn up you can
learn something about yourself and
there's not right or wrong there's no
judgment it's just does it help me what
is it maybe certainly and you move and
change it accordingly and is that like
what's the optimal response look like is
it universal like you're trying to get
people calm and creative or what should
be that if if I'm doing that for me
jumping out of a plane would be one of
those things I just can't make it make
sense from a risk and reward perspective
but like if I were going to do that yeah
what would I be trying to accomplish
just going through with it
or is there like an optimal cognitive
response I think be going through with
it sort of shows that you can overcome
bear
but for me it's far more interesting to
just watch yourself and what your
thoughts as you approach that task and
if you can learn something about that
and other is it just if you've done the
math and say look I've done the math and
the odds of making earth but it just
doesn't make sense and that's right
there's no right or wrong but if you
watch yourself approaching it and you
see all right you start to make excuses
or you start to beat yourself up and I'm
not really all those things that you
could turn around and you're with
respect to your mindset it's a learning
opportunity now it may not be that you
take that on forever but it's just a
reflection point and again I think to
your earlier conversation about you have
an idea of how you want to turn up and
how you want to be seen that who you
want people to see you as and then you
probably have the real you and there's
no right or wrong with that that's
natural human behavior but if you're
trying to aspire to be sort of a better
version of yourself in those moments
where things don't go well or challenges
are slightly beyond your capacity or you
feel just like you're faking it there
are opportunities to watch and learn
about yourself and just tweak things and
improve a little bit a little bit and
are there commonalities among the
mindset of the like most of the
performers in the world
one thing I do notice across and the
passion to do what they love and for me
that seems to squash a lot of the other
challenges of the creep in the system if
you really really love what you do then
you'll first and foremost do all the
work necessary you'll go out every day
and do that fundamentally because you
love it if you don't love it if you know
it as an athlete you'll find an excuse
not to get trained or whatever but also
thinking that passion resides sort of a
true love of understanding of what
you're about and again what you can do
in that space I think those things
together seem to allow people to kind of
do the necessary work put up with the
years of potentially non reward like not
making any money or any career some of
the sports we've dealt with in the past
there was nothing in there when they
started and ultimately they just managed
to make money at the end but there was
never part of the plan so I think all
those things are overcome by a real love
of what you're doing and then you can
the plant
on your own value system as well and
beyond that are there like belief
systems or a style of self-talk or
anything that you found like is there
any of that that you try to bake in like
if you're trying to take somebody from
third and verse like beyond what feels
to me like the physiological response
that you're going to optimize and
pressure is there anything like a belief
or self-talk or whatever that you try to
optimize I think that comes down to a
little bit yes or the bigger version
again of who who you what do you stand
for a lot of times we sort of say start
with the basics like just be kind
yourself be take take to be a little bit
easy on yourself so you're going to be
your world's evil soul counter intuitive
it does but you're going to be your
world's worst critic too you know you
have that internal dialogue to your
point and if you give yourself room and
space to say look I've got a lot to
bring to the table I have much to learn
but I'm also not here to do any harm I'm
here to just try and work through this
on my own you start to get a framework
around learning and learning from your
mistakes learning from your successes
and I think then the sort of being very
open to lifelong learning is another
thing that we see that many of these top
performers bring to the table they're
consistently just what's next what can I
do a little bit better I they're open to
new ideas they as we've learned over the
years to explore every opportunity to
understand what it takes to be improve
human performance just everybody has
something to offer and I think if you
bring those two things together and you
start to get to this space where people
that you know the training for someone
starts with that fundamental notion of
look every opportunity you have as a
person is pushing the edge of what
you're trying to master as an
opportunity learn about yourself as much
as is about getting better what you're
doing then you can kind of start to
build that sort of framework of mind set
up that is not what I expected you to
say that's really interesting and that
leads me to like creativity is become
such a big thing for you
why is creativity important and how do
you help people really optimize that
so creativity for us became very
important fundamentally as we start to
move into the culture and arts community
and people from those communities were
saying we want to improve and we needed
some framework so obviously we defaulted
in an unknowing manner to all right
creativity is an essential part of what
you do it dawned on us very quickly that
no matter what you're trying to achieve
if you're best-in-class you redefine
that space for everybody else so whether
you're an athlete figuring out a new
move or you're playing professional
basketball and you show the world the
new version of the game or of course if
you're an artist and you know exploring
the edges of your talent that creativity
the idea of thinking about things
differently and and more importantly
having the courage to back yourself in
that space we found was a profoundly our
profound insight for us and also led to
an opportunity we felt because most
people weren't especially in the non
cultural sphere looking at that as a
training space so having said that we
then embarked on a journey to try and
just get a framework around the
creativity as a construct and we build a
platform called hacking creativity calm
which was just a mix of research and
personal and private opinions and sort
of a masters sharing their stories and
just trying to shed light on the
conversation and then in the greater
context of what we're trying to achieve
it also set us on the journey of trying
to put a training and development
framework around measuring what can't be
measured so to spend of us so if we
think about those characteristics and
skills and qualities that everyone
really aspires to be and you sealed all
the ethos and the locker room walls and
in the and the sort of value statements
of companies it's the things like
integrity and character and values and
compassion and empathy and grace those
are the areas of human performance that
we really feel have the greatest offer
but of the hardest conceptualizing us
and then train - so what do you do like
if it's that important and yet that hard
to measure and I mean this is somebody
who measures blood and
the detail that you guys go into brain
scans looking at the microbiome I mean
like you guys really get nitty-gritty so
how did you become obsessed with
measuring what can't be measured and
where have your wins been like what do
you look at us to know like if it's
working on it well it's a great
questions I think we measure a lot of
stuff first and foremost because we can
sir and that's neither right nor wrong
but it definitely gives us a baseline
and for many years the physiology and
the biochemistry and the mechanics and
the things that we can document either
through blood or film or you know brain
scans whatever it may be
allows us to get put our fingers into
something and then if you think about it
though and it you know these other areas
of human endeavor and if you you talk to
people who reflect on great talent
they've worked with invariably say yeah
whatever they did on the field was
fantastic but they were a great person
you always get this sort of insight and
so that was the driver for us to say
this is a white space now to Train to it
to prepare people for it to say we have
any sense on how to do that would be
absolutely wrong but again I think we
know when we see it so we can select for
it so in building any teams selecting
for character first and amongst the
elite programs is where we all agree
interesting so how do you touch for that
like is it just a verbal interview I
think the easy way to think about it is
that when you see someone who's
extraordinary in a particular facet of
their career or their life that tends to
shadow the rest and we tend to put them
on a pedestal because it is it's
extraordinary what they've achieved but
at the end of the day the humans like
the rest of us
and there is in many cases and in an
equally dark side to that success and it
maybe not in all cases but it may be the
fundamental simple things that challenge
you and I day to day maybe then they're
not paying enough attention to their
family or their life and maybe suffering
a lot of them suffering security a lot
it's it doesn't look any different to
the average sort of person if you like
in many respects and I think they're in
and you see in the press many examples
of when that side breaks through people
then seem to have very little compassion
or forgiveness for these individuals
because they were putting them on such a
pedestal they don't like it when they
fall from grace so I think I think
that's something that people need to
understand that these aren't sort of
super people that do this they're not
superhuman they're they're normal people
who've obviously either been passionate
or had an inherent talent and they've
manifested itself in many cases they
struggle just like everybody else
alright so let's go back to training to
character how do you are there like sort
of set standard things that you guys do
to try to help somebody develop that
well I think it would be wrong for us to
say there's an ideal character again it
comes back to that just who are you what
do you stand for then we step aside from
the judgement we're not here to say this
is right or wrong so our training is if
we do it well in those cases so that
allows you to self reflect you were
given a training opportunity and
training evolution you go into it you
perform successfully unsuccessfully
moderately it doesn't really matter the
debrief will reflect on your sort of
progression through the training
evolution and in that in that
conversation it can be very tactical
alright you press the wrong button or
you you hit the ball the wrong way or
you didn't hit the note or it could be
very much around human character like
when things went wrong you lost your
temper with the rest of the team or it
could be you you didn't own up to the
fact that you didn't bring that piece of
equipment that you should you were
supposed to bring to the you know all
those little things and they get to more
of the the character side of it so it's
more of a an awareness a personal
awareness that we look at and hopefully
and if you're in the right training
environment and the truck can the right
community and people around your or
trying to hold up a high level or a high
standard of values you kind of rise to
that occasion and if you just can't and
most of the time in those places they
tend not to last now what's the end game
for you in human optimization and where
do you see us as being on the cycle or
we like all
away at the edge and there's only you
know a couple percentage points more
that we can eke out of the human
experience or weed at the very beginning
it's a good question I think if I look
at it with the lens of some of the
programs I see sort of on the edge of
this space I think we're really just at
the beginning now there's a timestamp to
that so evolutionarily speaking you
could say you know a hundred thousand
years we will be very different but I
think just because of what we're seeing
the technology is there the sort of
interest in this space is much
everything that that timeframe will
compress very quickly
and then you're getting too pure a human
optimization which we we talk about in
the context of making you better with
and the natural born gifts you've been
given and then we get into augmentation
which is adding things to you and those
two conversations have very different
timelines as well so what is the current
state of like brain computer interface I
think well I think Elan and he's noticed
announcement with his new startup rifle
thing shows you that there's enough
science theorem to make it a worthwhile
investment and he's going to pioneer the
space I think it gets very interesting
when Kurzweil and the group up north at
singularity start talking about being
connected to the web 24/7 and things
like that honestly I don't know how
that's all going to manifest itself but
my hope would be that we understand and
we can explore the edges of what you can
do profoundly as an individual human and
then we're layering on top of that I
think I don't know if it makes a lot of
sense to start explore all these
additions if you haven't had at least
some sort of opportunity to develop who
you are in the first instance that's a
really interesting response and do you
mean going back to like the notion of
character and building that sort of
ephemeral vision of who you are yeah I
think as we've talked about this sort of
next gen of the sort of human 2.0
conversation we're in deeply right now
the idea that with machines and heat and
cyborgs or robotics or coming together
at a rate of progression that sort of um
power
history for me the fundamental question
that belies all of these conversations
is what are humans good at what are we
inherently profoundly uniquely designed
for if we can isolate that and start to
explore that as the machine does take
off more and more of the mundane and
potentially even more of the complex
right which it will we're left with this
is the thing to focus on and I think
when we get back to again the wisdom of
the Ancients compassion empathy
character virtue Graham that's your
answer to us I think creativity I think
that's where we're going to end up that
would be my gut I'd love to hear if
there's other things and but I I'm not
sure and it's interesting the middle if
we're trying to truly be build machines
that can do what humans could do we also
need to answer the question just so we
can replicate if we do build a machine
that is capable of replicating
everything we are we need to know what
we're trying to replicate all right so
let's take it back human again yeah what
are some of the the metrics that you
look at when you're studying people that
are in a training evolution they're
trying to get better maybe acheron like
what are you guys looking at when you
take someone through a on
evolution I know you guys do brain scans
a lot of blood work microbiome what are
you looking for and then how do you
judge sort of success from that we are
fundamentally trying to answer two
questions the first question is just in
a cross-sectional sense who have we got
and the people that we already obviously
undergoing this protocol training are
usually best in class were at the top of
their game so we're looking to see
there's just something we can
distinguish across them so we look
across both physical metrics
psychological metrics and hopefully some
insight into creativity and spirituality
but that's a tough enough and then so if
we just take that on its own that gives
us an insight and potentially that
community and what makes successful
people successful then we go in okay
we're about to do something to you
we're putting you through an experience
we need to understand exactly what it is
with turned and dialed and switched and
changed in use so a lot of that
assessment up front is also trying to
allow us to figure out if something
shifts and changes during that training
a week and that groans about two weeks
what is it and can we do it more
accurately with less you know you know
resources can we fine-tune that
experience and are you starting to see
patterns emerge to take one of those
things and try and drop it downstream
and say everyone should do that is where
most of the information around human
performance on the online places like
that is wildly inaccurate for most
people because it must just wasn't here
so if I'm a sort of weekend performance
optimizer knowing that it's really
specific to me but needing something
like to benchmark like where would you
encourage me to look I would look it
means depending on what you're trying to
do remember people have been doing it
for a long time so no matter what you're
trying to achieve that someone who's
done it before you and someone already
at that level of really elite I mean I
would use their training or their
processes and / systems as guidelines
I'm said alright if I'm going to climb
Everest there's probably a generic
template out there to do anything room
is but I would be very careful about
copying wrote someone else's program oh
it's alright I'll use that as my sort of
boundaries and then I'll learn about
myself and if I find that this works
really well I'll continue to do that if
I find that that doesn't seem quite
right it doesn't feel right I'm getting
too tired I'll take a rest of all the
stuff that you've done in the human
performance what have you learned and
put to use in your own life I think it's
the conversations that we started with
earlier around being a little bit more
patient with yourself giving yourself a
room in space being kinda on your own
your framework getting that mindset
around failure that look I made a
mistake it just shows me what I need to
either improve if I want to continue or
or in my case hire someone else to do it
if that's if that's if I'm not good
enough at it
for me being more aware of the present
moment I'm and been learning to sort of
not get too hung up on anticipating it a
false narrative of whatever future you
have inside your head not getting too
caught up in the past and sort of
bringing it back to the present and not
always but knowing that I have those
skills allows me to so if I get in a
tough spot I can draw on all these other
experiences now I'd love to say I get it
right all the time but just like
everyone moments when I think we get it
and other moments when it's like ah I
just got to reset and and I think
nowadays one of the biggest things is if
we think about those values and
characteristics across all the elite
performers there's there's a sort of
indication coming through some of our
research that doing it for a bigger
purpose having a bigger purpose this
sort of falls under the spirituality
narrative but again my apologies to the
real spiritual masters we work with but
the idea that you are doing things for
something bigger than you it's something
that I've started as I've got older the
sort of anchoring as well so maybe again
for your military it's going to be your
mates you don't want to leave them like
it may be in the religious capacity
maybe for a God of your choosing it may
be just for the betterment of humankind
whatever that narrative is we see a lot
of that popping in our early performers
and I never plan on a bit naturally as
I've got a lot of like alright what can
we do to make a difference and for me
and a lot of people I work with that
seems to be a place that allows you to
continue explore with greater purpose
it's very interesting so bringing it
back to like high practicality what's
the role that you see is nutrition
playing in all of this just like
everything else in the performance
framework you need to be locked and
loaded in every area and if you are
missing fundamental nutrition then
that's going to be a massive detriment
to your outcome and it has both the
physical component and also more
importantly as we're seeing as a neuro
cognitive component so you know how
quick your thinking and decision-making
role and what have you seen play into
the neurocognitive from a dietary well
you know
precise as we are without the sorts of
testing we can do we typically comes
back to hey I'm just thinking more clear
I've corrected my diet I've filled in
some blanks in all sorts of systems and
nutrients that are missing and we hear
the general framework of hey I'm
sleeping better I'm thinking more
clearly of the fogs gone all these
comments which we can't tie directly to
anyone in change we made but when we
look at we've made their nutrition
woodsy substandard lacking and it's now
not lacking you know we filled in the
gaps and we see that change but we
haven't got the precision to know which
pathway we have found but I think
there's still in in sort of summary so
much to be learned in this sphere
and so many pieces that we don't
understand and the human as an entity is
one of the most complex systems in the
planet in fact in the universe if you
talk to the scientists and I think only
now today with again the progression
we're making in the in the AI and the
deep learning models we can start to
aggregate all the data on humans in such
a way that we can start to recreate a
digital sort of prototype which will
allow us to explore these things now it
gets pretty interesting pretty fast all
right before I ask my final question
where can these guys find you online
I'm con line I'm very bad at any of the
social things but I do have a Twitter
account which I get to once a month so
to speak but I'm on LinkedIn if people
want to connect there I'm usually very
open and and if you are we are open with
our platform we we do like to share
what's going on because the more the
merrier that's going to take a village
to solve this sort of human performance
construct and so we're very open with
our systems and data so we're always
sharing down our lab very cool
all right what's the impact do you want
to have in the world the impact for me
would be fundamentally if we can make 1%
difference across a lot of people I
think that would be profound if to make
it more real if people people I think
all have a dream they have a vision they
no matter what it is it may be very
simple maybe so
groundbreaking stuff if we could have a
part to play in terms of understanding
how to get them towards their dream I
think it would be a pretty amazing step
to take if everyone could realize what
they always wanted to achieve and get
there I think the place would be the
world would be an interesting place I
think if we can contribute to that by
sharing what we've learned and making it
actionable and effective which it can be
I think that's a possibility that would
be an exciting moment for me dr. Wallace
thank you so much thank you so
thankfully fantastic guys you're going
to want to dig into his world it is
utterly fascinating what he's doing the
way that he shares so openly with the
things that they have learned in trying
to get more people in this as we said
it's going to take a village and he's
very much taken a leadership role in
that to make sure that there's a whole
community of people putting forth all
the things that are the bricks that are
adding up to real human evolution and
taking control of the evolution of
evolution it's utterly fascinating to
dive in his work it is hopefully we can
encourage him to be more social because
I think that he has just a tremendous
tremendous amount to offer for anybody
who wants to optimize themselves and
going from that all the way to truly
becoming one of the greatest on the
planet at anything that you choose to be
and just the cycles the evolutions the
physiological things that you can look
at from neurotransmitters to nutrition
all of it they're trying to go in find
out what makes us tick what allows us to
grow and get better and what the the
training evolutions are that any of us
could deploy in our lives to find out
that highly customized strategy for self
improvement so dive in his world see
what you can put to use in your own life
you will thank him for it I promise
again dr. Wolfe thank you so much for
coming on the show everybody if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care
[Applause]
everybody thanks so much for joining us
for another episode of impact theory if
this content is adding value to your
life our 1 ask is that you go to iTunes
and stitcher and rate review not only
does that help us build this community
which at the end of the day is all we
care about but it also helps us get even
more amazing guests on here to show
their knowledge with all of us thank you
guys so much for being a part of this
community and until next time be
legendary my friend
[Music]